Add additional questions to the FAQ related to the new WPEPlatform API (#285)
Igalia/wpewebkit.org: about/faq.md

- Write a new CDM backend for WebKit using your DRM system.

## What is the WPEPlatform API?

WPEPlatform is the platform integration layer that ships inside WPE WebKit. It handles rendering and input for the target environment: a `WPEDisplay` manages the `WPEView`s that display web content, buffers are exchanged through `WPEBuffer` (DMA-BUF or shared memory), and WPE WebKit provides built-in implementations for Wayland, DRM/KMS, and headless output. The right implementation is chosen at runtime through the `WPE_DISPLAY` environment variable, or automatically.

> WPEPlatform is already available in WPE WebKit 2.52 and in the current unstable releases, but it is not part of the stable API yet, so for now it is optional and not the default. It is expected to become the default and recommended API with the upcoming 2.54 release. If you are starting a new project, we encourage you to try it out now instead of building on the API that will soon become legacy. See the [WPEPlatform API reference](/reference/stable/wpe-platform-2.0/) for the details.

Reviewer: When both WPEPlatform and libwpe are *built* into WebKit, the application choses what to use by default (MiniBrowser prefers WPEPlatform, actually). I suppose the intention was to explain that it is *not compiled by default*. For example this would do:

```suggestion
WPEPlatform is already available in WPE WebKit 2.52 and in the current unstable releases, but it is not part of the stable API yet, so for now it is optional and not built by default. It is expected to be enabled by default and the recommended API with the upcoming 2.54 release. If you are starting a new project, we encourage you to try it out now instead of building on the libwpe API, that will soon become legacy. See the [WPEPlatform API reference](/reference/stable/wpe-platform-2.0/) for the details.
```

Author: I like it, I would just say "...It is expected to be enabled by default and **become** the recommended" (i.e. add "become"), as I think it reads slightly better, wdyt?

Reviewer 2: agree with this: _become_ reads more natural here

Reviewer: Indeed, adding the “become“ there does wonders. Good suggestion!

## How do I build a launcher with the WPEPlatform API?

> This uses [the WPEPlatform API described above](#what-is-the-wpeplatform-api%3F), which you can already try today with WPE WebKit 2.52 or the unstable releases. With WPEPlatform there is no separate launcher to install: writing one is only a few lines of code, because WPE WebKit provides the platform integration itself. A minimal launcher looks like this:

Author: @aperezdc Your clarification on that the new API is not _built by default_ made me think that these instructions are incomplete as they suggest you can just grab a 2.52 release and use it, but that will only be the case if you the library you're using has been built with `-DENABLE_WPE_PLATFORM=ON`.

Therefore, I'd suggest expanding briefly this paragraph to include this slightly longer version of the first sentence: 

> This uses [the WPEPlatform API described above](#what-is-the-wpeplatform-api%3F), which you can already try today with WPE WebKit 2.52 or the unstable releases, as long as they are built with `-DENABLE_WPE_PLATFORM=ON` (not by default [except for "developer mode" builds](https://github.com/WebKit/WebKit/blob/6ea58a42a90953702692b60e2347b63075394968/Source/cmake/OptionsWPE.cmake#L106))

WDYT?

Reviewer: @mariospr Indeed, noting that the option needs to be enabled explicitly at build time is a good addition.

```cpp
#include <wpe/webkit.h>

int main(int argc, const char *argv[]) {
    g_autoptr(GMainLoop) loop = g_main_loop_new(nullptr, false);
    g_autoptr(WebKitWebView) view = WEBKIT_WEB_VIEW(g_object_new(WEBKIT_TYPE_WEB_VIEW, nullptr));
    webkit_web_view_load_uri(view, (argc > 1) ? argv[1] : "https://wpewebkit.org");
    g_main_loop_run(loop);
    return EXIT_SUCCESS;
}
```

> Build it against the `wpe-webkit-2.0` and `wpe-platform-wayland-2.0` packages (found with pkg-config), then choose the platform at runtime with the `WPE_DISPLAY` environment variable:

Reviewer: It's enough to build against `wpe-platform-2.0` (without “wayland” in the name):

 
```suggestion
Build it against the `wpe-webkit-2.0` and `wpe-platform-2.0` pkg-config modules, then choose the platform at runtime with the `WPE_DISPLAY` environment variable:
```

Author: Ah, fair point. I got this from https://simonpena.com/blog/2026/03/20/getting-started-with-wpe-webkit, and didn't think realize, but makes perfect sense.

Reviewer 2: But was it that building against `wpe-platform-2.0` alone didn't guarantee that the Wayland one was there? It's been a while, and I don't know if I have my earlier drafts, but IIRC my earlier version did that and then I realised (or was told) that this only meant the platform was there, but not its backends. Might totally be misremembering it.

```sh
# Wayland (needs a compositor, e.g. Weston)
WPE_DISPLAY=wpe-display-wayland ./my-launcher https://wpewebkit.org/

# DRM/KMS (no compositor)
WPE_DISPLAY=wpe-display-drm ./my-launcher https://wpewebkit.org/

# Headless (no output, for testing and CI)
WPE_DISPLAY=wpe-display-headless ./my-launcher https://wpewebkit.org/
```

## Do I still need libwpe and a WPE backend?

> For now, by default, yes. Until the 2.54 release makes WPEPlatform the default, WPE WebKit uses the previous API out of the box, and that API relies on libwpe together with an external rendering backend such as WPEBackend-fdo.

Reviewer: See above about *build time* defaults. Each application can choose to use one API or the other at runtime, and if both are built *and* no WPE Backend is loaded, then WPEPlatform is preferred (otherwise the simple code example above would not work!)

Author: Right, but the question we are answering here is whether it's needed or not, so I guess the wording is still mostly correct, but perhaps I'd change it into this: 

> For now, by default, yes. Until the 2.54 release builds the WPEPlatform by default, any application built on top of WPE WebKit will use the current API, which relies on libwpe together with an external rendering backend such as WPEBackend-fdo.

WDYT?

Reviewer: @mariospr The proposed paragraph LGTM 👍🏼
